<page01>
<sec01>
German Almanac for the Year of Our Lord
Jesus Christ, our Savior, 1529. Compiled from the teachings of the wise and experienced in astrology, for the special benefit of people, and prepared by Anthonius Brelochs, Doctor of Natural Science and Medicine in Schwäbisch Hall, appointed city physician, abbreviated for brevity.

<page02>
<sec02>
To the steadfast, honorable, prudent, esteemed, and wise mayor and council of the city of Schwäbisch Hall, my gracious and beloved lords.

Most honorable, prudent, and wise E.F.W., my willing and diligent service to you beforehand, my gracious and beloved lords. Up until now, German astrological practices have had a bad reputation among many people of high and low status and have been considered in various ways as books of lies. However, it is no less the case that if the art of astronomy and its practices intended to extend so far as to interfere with the Almighty Lord and God in His power, wisdom, and foresight, and to constrain God's almighty power into their rules, regulations, and statutes, it would indeed be no wonder for any respectable, devout Christian that such bad reputation has spread over the practice. But whoever prefers to consider the truth, rather than to despise an art unknown and unexperienced by him, will undoubtedly recognize that no honorable mind and heart, sincerely raised against our Almighty Creator and desiring to overcome God's eternal foresight with astronomy or any other art and wisdom, then according to the teaching of the Holy Apostle Paul, it is well known that God's almighty power cannot be circumscribed, that His judgment is incomprehensible, His ways unsearchable, no one has been His counselor, but from Him, through Him, and to Him are all things. Also, that all things we undertake and do, in words and deeds, should begin and end not in the name of the course of the heavens, not from the wisdom of the art of astronomy, but in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, who alone has been set and ordained by God, His heavenly Father, as the wisdom and indeed as a treasure of all divine knowledge. However, since our almighty Lord and God, through His word and power, first created the heavens, and in the heavens the sun and moon, and other stars, and will continue to move them powerfully until the end of the world, as I may call it, revolve them, and He has caused the sun and the earth’s growth to be in such an orderly connection that anyone endowed with common human understanding daily perceives how all growth on earth, inclined to the sun, flourishes joyfully in its brightness, and conversely with the sun's retreat in winter, withers and decays. What should prevent that other similar natural phenomena on earth, namely, rain, drought, warmth, fertility, crop failure, peace, and war, could also be indicated and observed from the natural order of the planets created by God? By no means would divine power be diminished, He remains nevertheless a ruler and protector of those who hope in Him alone and place their trust in Him. He can still, without the course of the heavens, make the mighty humble before Him and the humble who rise against Him, thus nothing would be taken away from divine and orderly power, but rather much more would be revealed through the true art of astronomy, bringing much more honor to the Almighty God. For true divine astronomy is nothing else than a rule and measure of divine orderly action, which the Almighty God accomplishes through His own creation of the heavens and the stars, not that He has confined Himself to this order but that He works and acts according to His common course and order from the highest in this world to the lowest. Therefore, no one needs to fear or dread anything from the stars and their influence, as the Prophet Jeremiah testifies: for the pious, the stars indicate nothing bad. They are those who need only to fear their Lord God alone. But the wicked must always beware, whether the stars indicate good fortune or misfortune, for even if the stars promise them great fortune in this world, what does it help if they use such fortune in their wickedness to their own misfortune? Thus, in this respect, no divine power is diminished, but much more is clearly revealed. Therefore, I have, from the teachings and advice of the experienced in this art, intended to reveal and publish the inclinations and influences of the stars, signs, and planets of this coming year, not as necessary to happen but as a warning, and to print it for the special pleasure of E.F.W. I will remain in this and at all times, as my gracious and commanding lords, your obedient, dutiful, and submissive servant. Given on the day of John the Baptist, the 24th of June, Anno 1528.
Your obedient appointed city physician,
Anthonius Brelochs, Doctor.

<sec03>
On the Eclipse of the Moon.
¶ The moon will be eclipsed on Sunday after Gallus, the 17th day of October, in the third degree of Taurus, in the sign of its exaltation, which will begin at about seven o’clock, the middle at 8:27, and the end at 10:04 in the morning, best seen against the setting sun, and it threatens much evil and distress. May God turn it for the best.

<sec04>
Which Planet Will Govern and Be Considered the Ruler of This 29th Year

¶ Setting aside for brevity the common causes of the heavens, such as the lord of the great cycle, which holds within it 360 years, the divisions, and the perfection of the great conjunction, which are sufficiently explained and revealed in my prognostication, I turn my attention to the planet that will govern above all others in this coming year. Considering the strength, power, and influence of all the planets in the twelve signs, especially when the sun enters the beginnings of the four cardinal signs, namely, Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn, along with the celestial positions of the preceding new and full moons, I declare according to the teachings of Ptolemy, Pheludiani in the second tractate of his four-part work, also Haly and other ancient experienced scholars of this art, that the mild and graceful Venus, being in favorable positions in both the prevention and revolution figures, is found to be the ruler of this coming year. However, the cruel and bloodthirsty Mars, also in his exaltation and a segment of the great circle, will be closely involved. Therefore, this year will be governed by the fickle Venus, with the assistance of the grim Mars, to which Mercury and the envious Saturn will also contribute their influence not insignificantly. Thus, according to the movement and characteristics of these planets (following the opinion of Leopold of Austria), the fate of all earthly matters in our lower world in this coming year is to be understood. What now appears from the aforementioned inclinations is predicted without particular additions, merely according to the substance.

<sec05>
How the Fruits of All Growing Things Will Indicate Price, Abundance, Rise, and Fall This Year

¶ According to the influence of the heavens and as much as can be observed from the principal constellations, for the higher things give their power to these lower ones on Earth and increase in their growth, this year in our horizon is more inclined towards fertility than infertility, or at least will hold a middle ground between the two. As for the particular types of fruits, I say that corn, wheat, barley, and oats will show fairly good growth, and even if the corn and other fruits suffer some setbacks, it will be due to slow growth, which a fruitful and mild climate will later remedy and invigorate. The wine, although it will have a fairly good growth, will be recognized in its rise and fall in many parts of our region. Some areas, particularly towards the west and south, should be warned that their vineyards might suffer damage from severe cold and moisture, frost, and turbulent rain with hail. To briefly conclude this chapter, I say that the majority of the stars indicate an inclination towards sufficient fertility in wine and all other kinds of fruits, provided that no damage occurs in spring from cold and frost, and later in summer from stormy winds and rain. However, God, the creator of the stars and all growth on Earth, will direct these and other matters according to His divine will.

<sec06>
On Wars, Disputes, Quarrels, Rebellions, and Adversities to Be Expected This Year

¶ Although Venus has the nature and complexion of Jupiter, inclined towards kindness and peace, Mars, the treacherous star, with his merciless, cruel, turbulent malice and hostilities, will be a co-ruler of this year with significant influence, being in the sign of his exaltation, also with Saturn and Mercury all positioned in the angular celestial figures. This will cause significant upheaval and strife in many lands and provinces, particularly towards the west, south, and north, leading to strong disputes, unheard-of distress, much injustice, anger, arson, bloodshed, murder, destruction of homes, and other martial adversities and injustices. There will be some preparations for war, which will be difficult to avoid, but in some places, there will be more peace and reconciliation than destruction of the land. Although at the beginning of the year, and again at the beginning of summer, significant discord and upheaval are to be expected, Germany should be wary that it does not fall noticeably, as such and greater threats are indicated for it. There is also considerable concern that this year might hardly reach its end without disunity and war between the powerful and mighty. Also, envy and hatred will be felt among many. As Haly Abenrabel states, when Mars is found in the third house of the revolution, it indicates that one will not soon join the other, and envy, hatred, enmity, and adversity will arise among the people. Great and mighty kings, princes, and all authorities must be cautious not to give too much rein to their subjects, as Mars in the descending house of the revolution indicates that the common people and subjects will be inclined to war and rebellion against their authorities. It is highly likely that the wars, discord, and martial disunity will extend for a time and be somewhat persistent, as indicated by Mars being forward in his house. Therefore, we must fervently call upon and pray to God, who created the heavens and the stars, that He will turn all things according to His divine will towards the salvation of our souls.

<sec07>
On the Diseases that Will Be More Dangerous for People and Animals This Year Due to the Influence of the Stars

¶ From a diligent study of the erected figures of the heavens of the planets and other fixed stars at the time of the sun’s entry into the first points of Aries and the other cardinal signs, it is indicated that in this coming year, people will be inclined to suffer harmful and often deadly diseases. Since the moon, after separating from the sun, tends to approach the angry planet Mars, who, as mentioned earlier, is in his power and exaltation, sharing the rulership with Venus. Thus, according to the teachings of Ptolemy and Albumasar, it indicates sudden and swift death, sharp contagious fevers, bloody and severe swellings, and other diseases that arise from heated, decayed blood. Many people in the south, north, and also towards the west will be at risk of death due to thin, bloody flux of the bowels. Additionally, Saturn in Taurus signifies that many parts of the world will experience serious illnesses caused by various natural and unnatural disruptions and changes in the air. Therefore, the plague is greatly to be feared this year and will be found highly dangerous for the inhabitants of the seventh climate. Albumasar publicly testifies that when Saturn completes his course in Taurus, forward, it indicates that people will suffer illnesses of the upper limbs, common illnesses this year to be expected, such as headaches, nasal discharge, eye, ear, and nasal pain, swellings of the throat, chest ailments, coughs, stomach pain, liver obstructions, urinary retention, dropsy, gout, and rheumatism. Both genders are warned of severe swellings and pains in the private and shameful parts. Noticeable significant epidemics are also threatened among the cattle due to the stars. We must fervently pray to God, our creator and savior, that He may grant us grace to refrain from the many punishments of various diseases He uses to chastise us and to improve our lives towards the salvation of our souls.

<sec08>
On the Conditions of People According to the Nature and Order of the Seven Planets, Summarized Briefly.

¶ All people subject to the planet Saturn and who derive their sustenance from its influence, such as old and elderly people, monks, rough laborers, masons, and those who are passionately inclined towards agriculture, as well as those with an earthy nature, called melancholy, will be found to be excessively cunning. They will lead their lives in dangerous and deadly circumstances, suffering adversities from their authorities. Their affairs will often face setbacks, with significant deceit involved, leading to losses in trade, advice, substance, and bodily sustenance. Monks will be persecuted; miners will suffer harm in the earth’s mines. Farmers will be troubled in many places by poor crop growth, and all people under Saturn’s influence must take care to preserve their bodies from harmful excess moisture, which could lead to severe diseases, causing many to die quickly. They will be in danger from the plague, warned against headaches, chest ailments, stomach issues, gout, bad fevers, dysentery, dropsy, paralysis of hands and feet, and their troubling times will be March, May, and the beginning of autumn until the end of the year.

¶ Those who are obedient to the planet Jupiter in their ways and practices, such as the clergy in general with their leaders, and the elderly sanguine people, will experience little joy and good fortune. They will face much adversity from the common people through envy, hatred, and anger. Many among them will engage in various confrontations with their subordinates and among themselves, complaining against one another without significant cause, only out of envy and hatred, mixed with falsehood, leading to noticeable grief, worry, and severe displeasure, which they will hardly escape without great effort, labor, anguish, and necessity. Many will be tightly bound by the chains of distress, as martial and contentious people will not hesitate to attack them, leading to significant shortages of sustenance. They should beware of gout, bad swellings from excess blood, hip and foot pain, hot fevers, and the plague. They should take care from the beginning of the year until the end of March, also in May and December, as these times will be especially troublesome for them.

¶ Those subject to the planet Mars and its influence, such as counts, barons, knights, soldiers, and all people who work with water and its related tasks, those who work with fire and make a living from it, as well as choleric individuals who are naturally hot-tempered and inclined to anger, will notice considerable good fortune in favorable conditions and will achieve success in many endeavors, gaining praise and honor in their public actions. However, they are warned in summer and thereafter to avoid misfortune from adversity and betrayal, with fickle conflicts arising among them. Knights and soldiers (according to Albumasar) will seek disputes with their enemies, resulting in many giving up their spirits, some fleeing from one place to another. They will face poisonous swellings, hot fevers, and diseases that will swiftly take many of them away. They are warned against bloody dysentery and blood poisonings. Their most dangerous times will be January, May, August, and November, during which they should refrain from war actions if they hope to avoid calamity.

¶ Powerful kings, princes, and lords of great authority and noble birth, with their deputies and administrators, those who govern with great wisdom, discipline, honor, and friendliness, and the virtuous nobility, all subject to the influence of the sun, will experience misfortune and disobedience among themselves, despite their previous friendliness. Envy and hatred will still lurk among them, with considerable loyalty felt. Some will be very greedy for nourishment and goods, thus burdening their people. They should be warned not to provoke their subjects to rebellion and adversity. Some will take precautions not to be humbled, but the stars threaten severe events, including deadly diseases, with troublesome times in January, May, August, and winter.

¶ Those subject to the graceful planet Venus and its ways and practices, such as women, maidens, entertainers, all joyful and graceful people, and lovers of carnal lust, will experience some fortune this year with joyful pleasures, leading many to fall into arrogance and pride, becoming intolerable towards each other. However, some will face death when Mars incites and inflames them to excessive lust, leading to deadly diseases. But if they abstain from gluttony, idleness, and sensual excesses, this influence will have no effect on them. The wise ruler over the stars indicates dangerous diseases for them, such as throat pain, body swellings, stomach pain, liver obstructions from cold, sharp fevers, and the plague. Their troublesome days will be the 13th of January, the 18th of May, from May to the end of August, the 30th of September, and the 15th of December. If they pass these times and days without adversity and bad illnesses, they will otherwise experience a fortunate year, with joyful births among the women.

¶ Those under the influence of the planet Mercury, such as merchants, scribes, accountants, astronomers, doctors, printers, and poets, as well as all those involved in subtle arts and trades, will not have much luck. When, as Albumasar testifies, Mars looks unfavorably upon Mercury, the aforementioned people will have little success in their endeavors and business. They will be despised and oppressed by authorities. Merchants will suffer great losses on the water from storms and bad weather and should beware of being robbed of their goods along the way. Likewise, officials, counselors to princes, and city councilors managing such matters should be cautious and wise to avoid misfortune from their lords and the community. They will face troublesome times from the beginning of the year until the end of February, March, April until the end of May, August, and the middle of autumn until winter and December. They are also warned about pestilential fevers, deadly diseases of the head, eye ailments, throat illnesses, gout, stone diseases, and intestinal issues.

¶ Those under the influence and governance of the moon in their livelihood, such as travelers, sailors, fishermen, bath attendants, and all common people with unstable conditions and water-related work, will find adverse fortune this year. They will be hated by princes and lords and their authorities, suffering much from their lords against the common people. Some will gain little profit in their goods and sustenance. They will face significant harm from warlike people and will experience much upheaval and conflict among themselves. Brothers will turn against brothers, friends against friends, and companions will sometimes deceive their fellows. Some will strive to rise against their rulers and authorities, possibly leading to civil and populous rebellions in many places. Therefore, rulers and councils of lords and cities should be vigilant to resist such evil. Many will suffer from head diseases, eye ailments, limb pain with paralysis, and are warned against the plague. Their adverse days are when the moon moves from the 15th degree of Libra to the 15th degree of Scorpio, with bad aspects from the sun, envious Saturn, and grim Mars.

<sec09>
On the States of Certain Kingdoms, Lands, and Cities Around the Earth.

¶ Germany, Little Poland, where the royal city Krakow is located, Austria, Florence, Naples, Braunschweig, France, Burgundy, and, according to some opinions, Augsburg: These lands and cities should guard against destruction from war and the destruction of some residences. In many places, bloodshed will be felt. The inhabitants will live in discord among themselves, some surrounded by much fear and necessity, suffering imprisonment. Some lords and rulers of these lands will do much harm to the people, oppressing them greatly. Some among them will live tyrannically against their subjects, so they are warned to avoid being overthrown or otherwise miserably perishing. Some lords of these places will be greatly feared by the people. While severe cold, heavy rains, frost, thunder, and hail threaten to damage the crops and growing things of the earth, this will mercifully pass, and some will have more than they hoped for. If the plague does not spread among them, they will give thanks to God.

¶ The Kingdoms of Spain, Hungary, the land of Moravia, and the Duchy of Milan: if they are not cautious, they will feel intense war from the west, as well as frightening uprisings incited by the common people. Therefore, the lords and authorities of these lands must always be vigilant to prevent this. The stars threaten damage from thunder, hail, lightning, and violent winds. If wine and grain are not damaged by this, they will have a rich harvest. Many will suffer from bad poisonous swellings and the plague, and four-legged animals will be afflicted.

¶ Italy, Bohemia, Austria, Sicily, Apulia, France towards Italy, Magdeburg, and some cities in Lombardy will strive greatly against their enemies and regret past actions. Some princes, lords, and authorities in these places will associate with people of noble lineage from foreign lands and attempt to seize power and authority from other princes and lords. Some princes, lords, and powerful individuals in these places will act cruelly towards the people, showing little compassion. The common people of these lands will be greatly inclined towards war and discord, leading to severe adversities. They will face various illnesses arising from the winds and excess blood.

¶ Thuringia, Saxony, Hesse, Switzerland, Prussia, Russia, Bologna, Bamberg, and parts of Asia Minor will prepare for war, leading to grief and danger. Some will suffer great persecution from their authorities and will be in much discord among themselves, leading to bloodshed and considerable offenses from surrounding lands. Their endeavors and plans will mostly be thwarted. Their authorities are warned to avoid being taken by deadly diseases, as this could lead to the destruction of their lands. The fruits and growth of the earth will be damaged in some places due to excess moisture and unfavorable air. Many will be swiftly taken by death through the plague.

¶ Swabia, Franconia, Alsace, Sundgau, Nuremberg, Augsburg, Salzburg, Ulm, Erfurt, Frankfurt, Heidelberg, Speyer, and the surrounding cities: if they do not take precautions this year, discord will arise in many places among them. Some will rebel against their authorities, slandering them with vile lies. If they are not attacked by martial forces and some powerful princes and lords, they will otherwise have a fairly fortunate year. If they encounter any adversities, they will pass without significant harm. They will have a reasonable growth of earth's fruits, wine, and grain. They will not be free from some illnesses, particularly experiencing head diseases, hip, hand, and foot pains, and some will give up their spirits through sudden illnesses and the plague. They should also guard against gout and all diseases of the intestines.

<sec10a>
On the Characteristics and Changes of the Air and Weather in the Four Seasons of the Year, with Indications of the Twelve Months, their New, Waning, and Quarter Moons, and Beginning with the State of Winter.

The winter season, according to astrological calculations, begins on the 11th of December at 6:00 PM. According to the general influence of the stars, it is inclined towards moderate cold, although in many places and cities towards the west, south, and north, sharp cold will arise, lasting many days and causing damage to many things. In warm regions, wet weather with abundant snow will occur. It is to be expected that during this time, in some places, there will be strong, stormy winds, similar to those found in the southern and western regions, which will be most dangerous. Illnesses of particular concern during this time will include headaches, strokes, chest ailments, coughs, side pains, throat abscesses, nasal discharge, gout, diarrhea, bladder and kidney pains, and the plague, which will most threaten those living in the south and north. However, others will also find it hard to escape these illnesses. Four-legged animals, used for human benefit, will suffer illnesses, and some will die.

On New Year’s Day, the first day of the Roman year, it will be very windy, sufficiently cold in some places, with clouds. The last quarter moon on the Saturday after New Year’s Day at 8:18 PM will be unstable, yet cold according to the season, also damp with winds mixed before midnight, and in many places, it will continue until the evening of Epiphany. On St. Erhard’s Day and the following days, there will be a significant change in the air with wind and moisture in some places with sleet.

The new moon in February on the Sunday after St. Erhard’s Day at 9:05 AM will feature weather typical for the time, with sharp cold winds, quick moisture, and black and gloomy clouds moving about. On the Monday after, strong cold wind will follow, after which snow or rain will follow, depending on the location. This will continue in many places until the Wednesday after. The Friday after St. Felix’s Day will bring cloudy air, in many places bringing moisture with blowing winds.

The first quarter moon on the day of St. Ambrose at 1:28 PM will generally bring unstable, yet cold and dark air, followed by snowy moisture with sleet in cold regions, but rain in warm areas. Around St. Prisca’s Day, there will be cold, gloomy air with north winds and quick moisture or rain depending on the location, lasting until St. Sebastian’s Day. On St. Vincent’s Day, expect windy and dark air.

The full moon in February on the Sunday after St. Sebastian’s Day at 12:42 PM will be cloudy, foggy, and unstable with damp winds, which will be somewhat harmful in some places, continuing in many places until the Tuesday after the Conversion of St. Paul. The Friday after St. Paul’s Conversion, or around that time, there will be cold wind, and in many places, snow or rain on the following Saturday, depending on the location. The Sunday after will be cold wind with a dark sky.

The last quarter moon on the evening of Candlemas at 4:03 PM will be cold and windy, with quick moisture in many places, and dark clouds mixed with red will appear, lasting until St. Blaise’s Day. On St. Agatha’s Day, the Saturday and Sunday after will feature strong cold winds, after which snow or rain will fall.

The new moon in March on the Monday after St. Dorothy’s Day at 8:17 PM will be sufficiently cold, with dark air and quick moisture in mountainous regions, but otherwise rain with north winds. On the Tuesday and Wednesday after, expect cold, damp wind with awkward clouds. On the evening of St. Valentine’s Day and the days after, it will be cold with a dark sky, and in many places, strong winds will bring quick moisture.

The first quarter moon on the Monday after St. Valentine’s Day at 10:58 AM will bring unstable weather, now cold, then cloudy with dark, gloomy air and sharp winds. Around St. Juliana’s Day, the Wednesday and Thursday after, it will be windy with gloomy rain. In mountainous areas, there will be quick moisture. On the Saturday and Sunday after St. Juliana’s Day, expect stormy, gloomy, cold air, tending towards fog or rain.

The full moon in March on the evening of St. Matthias’ Day at 6:25 PM will be windy and cold, with clouds moving about, and in many places, it will be gloomy with rain or snow, depending on the location. On St. Matthias’ Day, there will be strong wind, bringing rain in some places. Around the Friday after St. Matthias’ Day, the weather will change to cold and gloomy air, with heavy rain in some areas. Thunder will be heard in warm regions. On the Sunday after St. Matthias’ Day, it will be cold, windy, and dark, with rain experienced in some places. Around Tuesday, there will be wind from the north.

The last quarter moon on the Wednesday after Laetare Sunday at 8:58 AM will be cold, windy, and rainy. In warm regions, thunder may be heard around this time. On the Friday and Saturday after, and on the Sunday of Mid-Lent, there will be cold, snowy air with darkness; in some places, there will be rain. On the Tuesday after Mid-Lent, there will be wind with rain.

The new moon in April on the Wednesday after Mid-Lent at 5:44 AM will bring mixed, unstable weather with cold winds and dark air, with rain in many places.

The beginning of the spring warmth, which is naturally warm and moist, during which, according to all physicians, the blood in humans is most active, occurs on the 10th of March at 7:16 PM. There will be sufficiently temperate days, but often strong and cold winds will occur, bringing rapid and cold moisture with rain or frost in many places, threatening damage to the crops and growth of the earth, particularly towards the west and south. Thunder will also be heard in some places with much lightning. The illnesses of most concern during this quarter will be headaches, eye pain, throat abscesses, swellings, scarlet fever, blood disorders, stomach and liver diseases from cold and excess eating and drinking, bloody flux of the bowels, genital diseases of both sexes, and severe, sharp fevers. In many places, the plague will be felt, and during this time, death will be quite dangerous for children and young people of both sexes. In many places, the fruits will be damaged by insects.

On St. Gregory's Day and the following days, expect gloomy, dark air, windy cold rain. Around the Monday after St. Gregory's Day, it will be damp with cold winds, but in warm places, thunder will be heard with lightning.

The first quarter of the waxing moon on the Tuesday after St. Gregory's Day at 11:01 AM will bring unstable weather, cold, damp, and windy. In many places, reddish clouds will be seen. On the Thursday after St. Gertrude's Day, it will be cold, dark with winds, bringing dampness with rain in many places, with frost extending until the Saturday after.

The full moon in April, on the evening of the Annunciation at 11:48 PM, will bring great destructive and unhealthy changes in the air, with strong winds, rain, and sleet in many places, accompanied by thunder. On Easter Eve and Easter Day, expect dark air, cold gloomy rain with strong winds. On the Tuesday after Easter, it will be cloudy and rainy with wind.

The last quarter of the waning moon on the Thursday after Easter at 10:33 AM will bring unstable and mixed weather with strong damp winds, moving clouds, and foggy conditions. The Saturday after will be windy with cold moisture, bringing snow or rain. On the Wednesday after Quasimodo Sunday, expect wind with cold rain. In cold regions, severe cold and frost will be of concern around this time.

The new moon in May on the Thursday after Quasimodo Sunday at 2:05 PM will bring sharp cold winds with rain and sleet, frost, and thunderstorms in some places. For three days after, there will be unusual weather. On Misericordia Sunday, there will be cold windy rain. Around St. Tiburtius' Day, many places will be damp.

The first quarter of the waxing moon on the Thursday after St. Tiburtius' Day at 12:47 PM will bring strong winds in many places, with cold rain, frost in some areas, and rain extending to the Saturday after. On the Sunday and Monday after, expect mild wind bringing rain. On the evening of St. George’s Day, rain with sleet and wind will be experienced in some places, but it will barely clear up.

The full moon in May on St. George's Day at 3:51 PM will bring cold air with unusual clouds and unstable moisture. Such conditions will prevail in many places on the Sunday after. On the Monday after St. Mark's Day, there will be a change in the air, at least through wind and rainy clouds, with thunder or severe storms in some places, extending in many places until St. Vitalis' Day.

The last quarter of the waning moon on the day of St. Philip and St. James at 8:08 AM will bring cold rain, sleet, and thunderstorms in some places. Around this time, crops of the earth will be somewhat at risk due to frost. On the Tuesday after Holy Cross Day, and the Thursday after, there will be wind bringing rain in many places, with thunder.

The new moon in June on the Friday after Holy Cross Day at 9:55 AM will bring damp conditions with cold winds and clouds in many places. In warm regions, thunder may be heard. The Sunday after will have strong wind and rain, possibly with thunder. Around the Tuesday after, there will be damp wind in many places. Around St. Servatius’ Day and the Friday after, expect dark air with winds, and rain in many places.

The first quarter of the waxing moon on the eve of Pentecost at 3:46 AM will mostly bring cold air with clouds and sharp winds, causing quick rain in many places. It will be a heavy time, lasting until Pentecost. On the Thursday and Friday after, expect windy and rainy weather.

The full moon in June on Trinity Sunday at 5:54 AM will bring cold, windy, and dark weather mixed with moisture. In some places, thunder with lightning will be observed. Around Corpus Christi Day, expect clouds, wind, and rain with sleet. In warm regions, there will be thunder, and in cold regions, frost can be expected, lasting until the day after.

The last quarter of the waning moon on the Sunday after St. Urban's Day at 2:30 PM will bring unstable weather with moving clouds, windy and rainy conditions. Thunder will be heard in many places. On St. Erasmus' Day and the following day, expect cold, rain, sleet, and stormy weather.

The new moon in July on the Sunday after St. Boniface's Day at 6:18 AM will be somewhat warm with clouds, and in some places, stormy weather will bring rain. On the Wednesday and Thursday after St. Boniface's Day, expect moderate wind with rain, thunder with lightning, and stormy weather in many places.

<sec10b>
On Summer and its New and Full Moon Phases

The summer, which is naturally hot and dry, begins on the 12th of June at 6:21 AM. It will be moderate with some warm days, yet unstable with many stormy winds, cloudbursts, and thus very wet with rain, sometimes with much thunder and lightning. This quarter will also not be without hot and severe ailments such as boils, body pains, bladder issues, thigh pains, and eye ailments. Many will feel pestilential diseases and sudden death.

The first quarter of the waxing moon on the Sunday after St. Barnabas’ Day at 7:55 PM will bring temperate days, yet in many places it will be windy and damp. On the Thursday and Friday after, changes will occur, sometimes with heavy rain and thunder. In many places, stormy winds and severe thunderstorms will be found. Around the Sunday after St. Vitus’ Day, there will be rain with midday winds.

The full moon in June on St. Alban’s Day at 6:01 PM will generally incline towards wind and moisture, with thunder and lightning and rain in many places. Around St. John the Baptist’s Day and the days following, there will be strong wind with rain, and in many places, thunder and stormy weather will be heard.

The last quarter of the waning moon on the evening of St. Peter and St. Paul’s Day at 6:07 PM will incline towards temperate weather with winds, and during this time, thunder, hail with lightning, and heavy rain will occur. On the Wednesday and Thursday after, there will be clouds mixed with strong winds, mostly in many places, rain will follow. On the Feast of the Visitation of Mary or around that time, there will be strong wind with notable rain, and in many places, thunder and lightning.

The new moon in August on the Monday after St. Ulric’s Day at 4:02 PM will be unstable with winds, thunder, and lightning will be somewhat harmful, with large hail and heavy rain. On the Wednesday and Thursday after, there will be strong wind and rain, possibly with hail. In many places, thunder and storms will be heard, extending to the Friday after.

The first quarter of the waxing moon on St. Margaret’s Day at 35 minutes past noon will bring unstable weather, yet very inclined to strong winds with rain. In many places, thunder and storms will be observed, which will last for three days.

The full moon in August on the evening of St. Mary Magdalene’s Day at 4:30 AM will bring unstable weather with strong winds bringing rain, with harmful thunderstorms, thunder, and lightning. On St. Mary Magdalene’s Day, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday after, there will be strong stormy winds. In many areas, thunder with lightning and other storms with heavy rain can be expected.

The last quarter of the waning moon on the Tuesday after St. James’ Day at 10:08 AM will be temperate in heat, with moving clouds and blowing winds, rain in many places, and thunder, extending until the Thursday after. The Thursday after St. Pantaleon’s Day will bring damp winds.

The new moon in September on the Wednesday after St. Peter in Chains at 3:58 AM will be foggy and cold with winds and rain, and frost in some places. On St. Sixtus’ Day or around that time, clouds mixed with strong winds will refresh with rain in many places. Around St. Lawrence’s Day, there will be moderate wind with rain.

The first quarter of the waxing moon on the Thursday after St. Lawrence’s Day at 5:39 AM will bring a dark dampness to the air, in some places with hail and thunder and other storms. On the Saturday after St. Lawrence’s Day or around that time, there will be rain with hail and stormy wind. Around the Tuesday after the Assumption of Mary, there will be moderate wind with rain without thunder, with lightning barely clearing up.

The full moon in September on the Thursday after the Assumption of Mary at 2:01 PM will bring unstable weather with wind, temperate cold, and possibly rain and storms in many places, extending to the Saturday after. On the evening of St. Bartholomew’s Day, there will be notable moisture and stormy winds with storms, lasting until the Wednesday after.

The last quarter of the waning moon on the Thursday after St. Bartholomew’s Day at 4:21 AM will bring unstable weather, sometimes wind with rain moisture. Around the Friday after St. Bartholomew’s Day, it will be windy with rain. On the Monday after St. Augustine’s Day or around that time, there will be dark, gloomy air, and in many places, it will be damp with winds. Around St. Giles’ Day, there will be a change in the air to cold and moderate moisture.

The new moon in October on the Thursday after St. Giles’ Day at 6:34 AM will bring temperate air, sometimes inclined to moisture with strong blowing winds. On the Saturday after St. Giles’ Day or around that time, there will be strong and continuous wind, yet particularly dark and gloomy weather. On the Feast of the Nativity of Mary, it will be inclined to cold and moisture, with frost expected in some places.

The first quarter of the waxing moon on the Friday after the Nativity of Mary at 10:14 AM will bring damp, cloudy air with moderate warmth, and the day after will be windy.

Autumn and its New and Full Moon Phases

The autumn, naturally cold and dry, showing most prominently melancholy, begins on the 13th of September at 7:45 PM. It will bring unstable and cold weather with harsh winds, also damp with some frost, and in many places, persistent rain will be felt. People will experience swelling of the body, throat pains, rare bad ulcers, eye ailments, nasal discharge, ear ringing from the cold, severe and strong fevers. During this quarter, thunder and lightning will be observed, sometimes with fog. On the Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, the air will be dark, and in many places also damp with winds, lasting until the Thursday after.

The full moon in October on the Friday after the Exaltation of the Holy Cross at 11:08 AM will incline towards moderate weather, yet windy. In some places, it will barely clear up without rainy moisture. On the evening of St. Matthew’s Day and the day after, expect dark times, cold rain, wind, and unstable storms. In some places, thunder may be heard.

The last quarter of the waning moon on the Friday after St. Matthew’s Day at 2:02 PM will be damp with winds, also foggy and rough. On the Monday after St. Maurice’s Day, the air will be dark with winds, and in many places, rain will extend in many areas until the Thursday after St. Michael’s Day.

The new moon in November on the Saturday after St. Remigius’ Day at 11:31 AM will begin with darkness, rain, and winds. On the Tuesday and Wednesday after St. Francis’ Day, there will be a change to dark air and rain. The Thursday after will be damp and windy. Around St. Dionysius’ Day, the weather will be unstable with damp winds.

The first quarter of the waxing moon on the Sunday after St. Dionysius’ Day at 1:44 PM will incline towards cold and moisture with clouds. On the Tuesday and Wednesday after St. Dionysius’ Day, it will be dark and cold with rain, lasting in many places until the Friday.

The full moon in November, during which there will be a lunar eclipse, on the Sunday after St. Gall’s Day at 8:27 AM will be sufficiently cold, gloomy with strong winds and rain, and snow in the mountains. On St. Luke’s Day and the two days after, the air will be gloomy with sharp, harsh winds, and in many places, rain. Thunder and lightning may be heard in some places.

The last quarter of the waning moon on the Sunday after St. Ursula’s Day at 3:51 AM will be foggy and cold with blowing wind, after which cold rain will come. In the mountains, snow will occur, lasting until the Monday after. On the evening of St. Simon and St. Jude’s Day, there will be strong wind with notable rain. Thunder may be heard around this time in some places.

The inserted or 13th new moon, without a month’s name, on All Saints’ Day at 6:04 AM will bring unstable weather with strong cold winds, very damp with rain, and snow in many places, extending in many places until the Thursday after.

The first quarter of the waxing moon on the Tuesday after St. Leonard’s Day at 3:08 AM will be sufficiently cold with strong winds and rain, and in the mountains and elsewhere, snow, extending in many places until St. Martin’s Day. The Friday after will be windy and damp.

The full moon of the ungrateful month on the Monday after St. Martin’s Day at 5:28 AM will be gloomy, cold with damp winds, and lasting in many places until the Wednesday after. On the evening and day of St. Elizabeth, there will be notable wind with quick moisture.

The last quarter of the waning moon on the Monday after St. Elizabeth’s Day at 8:56 AM will be cold and dark with damp winds, rain or snow depending on the location, extending until the Thursday after. The Saturday after St. Catherine’s Day will be cold with gloomy clouds and windy with rain. In the mountains, snow will occur, lasting for the next two days.

The new moon in December on St. Andrew’s Day at 12:44 PM will be sufficiently cold, with strong wind and moisture, snow or rain depending on the location. On St. Barbara’s Day and the Sunday after, it will be cold and windy with gloomy clouds.

The first quarter of the waxing moon on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception at 2:18 PM will be cold and damp for the time and windy. The Saturday and Sunday after will be dark clouds with winds and quick moisture.

The full moon in December on the Wednesday after St. Lucy’s Day at 3:43 AM, and the Thursday after, will bring a change to great cold and also windy, and snow in some places. The Saturday after will be gloomy and cold with moisture. On St. Thomas’ Day or around that time, it will be damp and windy.

The last quarter of the waning moon on the Wednesday after St. Thomas’ Day at 4:29 PM will act according to the time, cold and damp with rough winds. Around St. Stephen’s Day and the day after, it will be cold with a dark sky, and in many places, damp winds. The Wednesday after will be unstable with cold winds and moisture.

The new moon in January on the Thursday after the Feast of the Holy Innocents at 6:02 AM will be frosty, with enough snow and wind introduced with gloomy clouds.

Here end the future things shown to us mortal men by the course of the heavens, not that they must come as described here. When the wise man rules the stars, God the Almighty governs and arranges all things according to His divine will, to whom be praise, honor, and thanksgiving forever. Amen.

From the library of the late D. E. A. W. Krauss
